1	A bomb severely damaged a Negro church today during Sunday school services , killing four Negro girls and setting off racial rioting and other violence in which two Negro boys were shot to death .
2	Fourteen Negroes were injured in the explosion .
3	One Negro and five whites were hurt in the disorders that followed .
4	Some 500 National Guardsmen in battle dress stood by at armories here tonight , on orders of Gov. George C. Wallace .
5	And 300 state troopers joined the Birmingham police , Jefferson County sheriff 's deputies and other law-enforcement units in efforts to restore peace .
6	Governor Wallace sent the guardsmen and the troopers in response to requests from local authorities .
7	Sporadic gunfire sounded in Negro neighborhoods tonight , and small bands of residents roamed the streets .
8	Aside from the patrols that cruised the city armed with riot guns , carbines and shotguns , few whites were seen .
9	Fire Bomb Hurled .
10	At one point , three fires burned simultaneously in Negro sections , one at a broom and mop factory , one at a roofing company and a third in another building .
11	An incendiary bomb was tossed into a supermarket , but the flames were extinguished swiftly .
12	Fire marshals investigated blazes at two vacant houses to see if arson was involved .
13	Mayor Albert Boutwell and other city officials and civic leaders appeared on television station WAPI late tonight and urged residents to cooperate in ending `` this senseless reign of terror .
14	`` Sheriff Melvin Bailey referred to the day as `` the most distressing in the history of Birmingham . ''
15	The explosion at the 16th Street Baptist Church this morning brought hundreds of angry Negroes pouring into the streets .
16	Some attacked the police with stones .
17	The police dispersed them by firing shotguns over their heads .
18	Johnny Robinson , a 16-year-old Negro , was shot in the back and killed by a policeman with a shotgun this afternoon .
19	Officers said the victim was among a group that had hurled stones at white youths driving through the area in cars flying Confederate battle flags .
20	When the police arrived , the youths fled , and one policeman said he had fired low but that some of the shot had struck the Robinson youth in the back .
21	Virgil Wade , a 13-year-old Negro , was shot and killed just outside Birmingham while riding a bicycle .
22	The Jefferson County sheriff 's office said `` there apparently was no reason at all '' for the killing , but indicated that it was related to the general racial disorders .
23	Another Negro youth and a white youth were shot but not seriously wounded in separate incidents .
24	Four whites , including a honeymooning couple from Chicago , were injured by stones while driving through the neighborhood of the bombing .
25	The bombing , the fourth such incident in less than a month , resulted in heavy damage to the church , to a two-story office building across the street and to a home .
26	Wallace Offers Reward .
27	Governor Wallace , at the request of city officials , offered a $ 5,000 reward for the arrest and conviction of the bombers .
28	None of the 50 bombings of Negro property here since World War II have been solved .
29	Mayor Boutwell and Chief of Police Jamie Moore expressed fear that the bombing , coming on top of tension aroused by desegregation of three schools last week , would bring further violence .
30	George G. Seibels Jr. , chairman of the City Council 's police committee , broadcast frequent appeals tonight to white parents , urging them to restrain their children from staging demonstrations tomorrow .
31	He said a repetition of the segregationist motorcades that raced through the streets last Thursday and Friday `` could provoke serious trouble , resulting in possible death or injury . ''
32	The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. arrived tonight by plane from Atlanta .
33	He had led Negroes , who make up almost one-third of Birmingham 's population , in a five-week campaign last spring that brought some lunch-counter desegregation and improved job opportunities .
34	The bombed church had been used as the staging point by Negro demonstrators .
35	Curfew Plan Rejected .
36	Col. Albert J. Lingo , State director of Public Safety and commander of the troopers , met with Mayor Boutwell and the City Council in emergency session .
37	They discussed imposition of a curfew , but decided against it .
38	The bombing came five days after the desegregation of three previously all-white schools in Birmingham .
39	The way had been cleared for the desegregation when President Kennedy federalized the Alabama National Guard and the Federal courts issued a sweeping order against Governor Wallace , thus ending his defiance toward the integration step .
40	The four girls killed in the blast had just heard Mrs. Ella C. Demand , their teacher , complete the Sunday school lesson for the day .
41	The subject was `` The Love That Forgives . ''
42	During the period between the class and an assembly in the main auditorium , they went to the women 's lounge in the basement , at the northeast corner of the church .
43	The blast occurred at about 10:25 A.M. -LRB- 12:25 P.M. New York time -RRB- .
44	Church members said they found the girls huddled together beneath a pile of masonry debris .
45	Parents of 3 Are Teachers .
46	Both parents of each of three of the victims teach in the city 's schools .
47	The dead were identified by University Hospital officials as : Cynthia Wesley , 14 , the only child of Claude A. Wesley , principal of the Lewis Elementary School , and Mrs. Wesley , a teacher there .
48	Denise McNair , 11 , also an only child , whose parents are teachers .
49	Carol Robertson , 14 , whose parents are teachers and whose grandmother , Mrs. Sallie Anderson , is one of the Negro members of a biracial committee established by Mayor Boutwell to deal with racial problems .
50	Addie Mae Collins , 14 , about whom no information was immediately available .
51	The blast blew gaping holes through walls in the church basement .
52	Floors of offices in the rear of the sanctuary appeared near collapse .
53	Stairways were blocked by splintered window frames , glass and timbers .
54	Chief Police Inspector W. J. Haley said the impact of the blast indicated that at least 15 sticks of dynamite might have caused it .
55	He said the police had talked to two witnesses who reported having seen a car drive by the church , slow down and then speed away before the blast .
56	At Least 31 Are Dead , Scores Are Missing After Car Bomb Attack in Oklahoma City Wrecks 9-Story Federal Office Building Washington , April 19 -- The authorities opened an intensive hunt today for whoever bombed a Federal office building in Oklahoma City , and proceeded on the theory that the bombing was a terrorist attack against the Government , law-enforcement officials said .
57	President Clinton appeared in the White House press room this afternoon and somberly promised that the Government would hunt down the ` evil cowards ' responsible .
58	` These people are killers , ' he said , ` and must be treated like killers . '
59	Attorney General Janet Reno , speaking to reporters at the White House in early evening , said that casualty figures from the scene were climbing and that of the 550 people who worked in the building , 300 were unaccounted for .
60	Ms. Reno said Federal prosecutors would seek the death penalty against the bombers .
61	` The death penalty is available , ' she said , ` and we will seek it . '
62	But the authorities said they had no suspects , and questions about the identity of the bombers swirled around the case .
63	The only solid fact was the explosion itself .
64	Some law-enforcement officials said the bombing might be linked to the second anniversary today of Federal agents ' ill-fated assault on the Branch Davidian compound near Waco , Tex. , an operation that ended in a fire that killed about 80 people , including many children .
65	Among the offices housed by the Federal building in Oklahoma City was one quartering local agents of the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms , the agency that Branch Davidians and their sympathizers blamed for the confrontation .
66	But other officials said that neither the Branch Davidians nor right-wing ` militia ' groups that have protested the Government 's handling of the Davidians were believed to have the technical expertise to engage in bombings like the one today .
67	Some experts focused on the possibility that the attack had been the work of Islamic militants , like those who bombed the World Trade Center in February 1993 .
68	But if so , it was unclear why they would have struck in Oklahoma City .
69	Some Middle Eastern groups have held meetings there , and the city is home to at least three mosques .
70	But of the estimated five million Muslims in the United States , ` there 's just very , very few out that way , ' said Imam Muhammad Karoub , director of the Federation of Islamic Associations , based in Redford , Mich , a Detroit suburb .
71	Several news organizations , including CNN , reported that investigators were seeking to question several men , described as being Middle Eastern in appearance , who had driven away from the building shortly before the blast .
72	There were also reports that the authorities had interviewed employees at a National Car Rental office in Dallas about a recently leased truck .
73	But Federal officials here said they could not confirm those reports .
74	Indeed , investigators said they did not know whether the bombers were domestic or international terrorists .
75	The authorities said the bomb had probably been packed in a vehicle parked outside the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building , where the explosion left a 20-foot-wide , 8-foot-deep crater in the street .
76	Officials at the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms said they had not determined the bomb 's chemical makeup , which they suspected to be ammonium nitrate and fuel oil , both easily available substances of the type used in the World Trade Center bombing .
77	They said the damage led them to conclude that the bomb , if it was made of ammonium nitrate , might have weighed 1,000 to 1,200 pounds , about the size of the trade center bomb .
78	From offices and bases around the country , Government aircraft carried to Oklahoma City an array of Federal law-enforcement officials , emergency management personnel and military forces , an operation that constituted one of the vastest responses to a crime in American history .
79	The firearms bureau sent national emergency teams to coordinate the examination of the bomb site , the analysis of the explosives and the search for fragments of the vehicle in which the bomb was believed to have been planted .
80	The Federal Bureau of Investigation sent four special agents in charge of field offices in New Orleans , Houston , Phoenix and Dallas to manage the investigative operation .
81	From Fort Sill , Okla. , the Pentagon sent two medical evacuation helicopters , Army soldiers trained in bomb disposal and two canine bomb detection teams .
82	The Air Force sent a 66-member rescue squad , along with two ambulances , from Tinker Air Force Base in Oklahoma .
83	It also dispatched 38 trauma-team members from Lackland Air Force Base near San Antonio .
84	Military transport aircraft flew 68 civilian firefighters and a 60-member search and rescue team to the site .
85	In addition , the Pentagon said about 80 soldiers from the Oklahoma National Guard 's 745th Military Police Company were helping to provide security around the Federal building .
86	A 24-hour F.B.I. command center with 400 telephones was established in Oklahoma to coordinate the work of explosives teams , bomb technicians and portable scientific gear used to analyze chemical residues .
87	Mr. Clinton learned of the explosion about 10:30 A.M. from his press secretary , Michael D. McCurry , just as the President was beginning an Oval Office meeting with the Turkish Prime Minister .
88	The White House chief of staff , Leon E. Panetta , left the meeting about 11 with instructions from Mr. Clinton to call Attorney General Reno and make sure that Federal agencies were coordinating their responses and had all the resources they needed .
89	The President later dispatched James Lee Witt , head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency , to Oklahoma , and left the Oval Office periodically the rest of the day to watch reports from the scene on a television in his secretary 's office .
90	` Like most Americans , ' Mr. McCurry said , ` he was troubled , expecially by pictures of the children ' who had been killed .
91	The President also discussed the situation with Oklahoma 's Governor , Frank Keating , and members of the state 's Congressional delegation .
92	Later he wrote out remarks in longhand , then went to the White House briefing room about 5:15 to deliver them to the waiting reporters .
93	But aides said Mr. Clinton had also felt that it was important to keep up with the rest of his schedule .
94	So he met as planned with representatives of three Iowa television stations who had come to interview him about a conference on rural America that is scheduled for Ames next week .
95	Justice Department officials heard early reports of the blast but said later that they had not realized the extent of the damage until they watched television accounts from the scene .
96	Ms. Reno spent much of the day monitoring developments and sent Deputy Attorney General Jamie S. Gorelick to the White House to advise officials there .
97	Later , Ms. Reno met with Mr. Clinton , discussing Federal statutes that might apply to the crime and telling him that a standing emergency response plan had been put into effect , sending teams of Federal agents to Oklahoma City .
98	It is unclear whether the Government had received any intelligence indicating that any group had been planning an attack , and also unclear whether there had been any sign of movement like that leading to the explosion at the World Trade Center .
99	In the case of the trade center , Ramzi Ahmed Yousef , charged with being the mastermind behind the bombing , entered the United States under an assumed name , recruited local supporters to carry out the detail work and then fled the country within hours of the blast , the authorities say .
100	Several officials said there had been no threats before the Oklahoma City blast and no credible claims of responsibility afterward .
101	The officials added that there were numerous witnesses among occupants of the building and said the site could yield a wealth of clues about the chemical composition of the bomb and the identity of the vehicle that presumably carried it .
102	Six Dead After Church Bombing Blast Kills Four Children ; Riots Follow Two Youths Slain ; State Reinforces Birmingham Police Birmingham , Sept. 15 -- A bomb hurled from a passing car blasted a crowded Negro church today , killing four girls in their Sunday school classes and triggering outbreaks of violence that left two more persons dead in the streets .
103	Two Negro youths were killed in outbreaks of shooting seven hours after the 16th Street Baptist Church was bombed , and a third was wounded .
104	As darkness closed over the city hours later , shots crackled sporadically in the Negro sections .
105	Stones smashed into cars driven by whites .
106	Five Fires Reported Police reported at least five fires in Negro business establishments tonight .
107	A official said some are being set , including one at a mop factory touched off by gasoline thrown on the building .
108	The fires were brought under control and there were no injuries .
109	Meanwhile , NAACP Executive Secretary Roy Wilkins wired President Kennedy that unless the Federal Government offers more than `` picayune and piecemeal aid against this type of bestiality '' Negroes will `` employ such methods as our desperation may dictate in defense of the lives of our people . ''
110	Reinforced police units patrolled the city and 500 battle-dressed National Guardsmen stood by at an armory .
111	City police shot a 16-year-old Negro to death when he refused to heed their commands to halt after they caught him stoning cars .
112	A 13-year-old Negro boy was shot and killed as he rode his bicycle in a suburban area north of the city .
113	Police Battle Crowd Downtown streets were deserted after dark and police urged white and Negro parents to keep their children off the streets .
114	Thousands of hysterical Negroes poured into the area around the church this morning and police fought for two hours , firing rifles into the air to control them .
115	When the crowd broke up , scattered shootings and stonings erupted through the city during the afternoon and tonight .
116	The Negro youth killed by police was Johnny Robinson , 16 .
117	They said he fled down an alley when they caught him stoning cars .
118	They shot him when he refused to halt .
119	The 13-year-old boy killed outside the city was Virgil Ware .
120	He was shot at about the same time as Robinson .
121	Shortly after the bombing police broke up a rally of white students protesting the desegregation of three Birmingham schools last week .
122	A motorcade of militant adult segregationists apparently en route to the student rally was disbanded .
123	Police patrols , augmented by 300 State troopers sent into the city by Gov. George C. Wallace , quickly broke up all gatherings of white and Negroes .
124	Wallace sent the troopers and ordered 500 National Guardsmen to stand by at Birmingham armories .
125	King arrived in the city tonight and went into a conference with Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth , a leader in the civil rights fight in Birmingham .
126	The City Council held an emergency meeting to discuss safety measures for the city , but rejected proposals for a curfew .
127	Dozens of persons were injured when the bomb went off in the church , which held 400 Negroes at the time , including 80 children .
128	It was Young Day at the church .
129	A few hours later , police picked up two white men , questioned them about the bombing and released them .
130	The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. wired President Kennedy from Atlanta that he was going to Birmingham to plead with Negroes to `` remain non-violent . ''
131	But he said that unless `` immediate Federal steps are taken '' there will be `` in Birmingham and Alabama the worst racial holocaust this Nation has ever seen . ''
132	Dozens of survivors , their faces dripping blood from the glass that flew out of the church 's stained glass windows , staggered around the building in a cloud of white dust raised by the explosion .
133	The blast crushed two nearby cars like toys and blew out windows blocks away .
134	Negroes stoned cars in other sections of Birmingham and police exchanged shots with a Negro firing wild shotgun blasts two blocks from the church .
135	It took officers two hours to disperse the screaming , surging crowd of 2,000 Negroes who ran to the church at the sound of the blast .
136	At least 20 persons were hurt badly enough by the blast to be treated at hospitals .
137	Many more , cut and bruised by flying debris , were treated privately .
138	-LRB- The Associated Press reported that among the injured in subsequent shooting were a white man injured by a Negro .
139	Another white man was wounded by a Negro who attempted to rob him , according to police . -RRB-
140	Mayor Albert Boutwell , tears streaming down his cheeks , announced the city had asked for help .
141	`` It is a tragic event , '' Boutwell said .
142	`` It is just sickening that a few individuals could commit such a horrible atrocity .
143	The occurrence of such a thing has so gravely concerned the public ... '' His voice broke and he could not go on .
144	Boutwell and Police Chief Jamie Moore requested the State assistance in a telegram to Wallace .
145	`` While the situation appears to be well under control of federal law enforcement officers at this time , the possibility of further trouble exists , '' Boutwell and Moore said in their telegram .
146	President Kennedy , yachting off Newport , R.I. , was notified by radio-telephone and Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy ordered his chief civil rights troubleshooter , Burke Marshall , to Birmingham .
147	At least 25 FBI agents , including bomb experts from Washington , were being rushed in .
148	City Police Inspector W.J. Haley said as many as 15 sticks of dynamite must have been used .
149	`` We have talked to witnesses who say they saw a car drive by and then speed away just before the bomb hit , '' he said .
150	In Montgomery , Wallace said he had a similar report and said the descriptions of the car 's occupants did not make clear their race .
151	But he served notice `` on those responsible that every law enforcement agency of this State will be used to apprehend them . ''
152	The bombing was the 21st in Birmingham in eight years , and the first to kill .
153	None of the bombings have been solved .
154	As police struggled to hold back the crowd , the blasted church 's pastor , the Rev. John H. Cross , grabbed a megaphone and walked back and forth , telling the crowd : `` The police are doing everything they can .
155	Please go home . ''
156	`` The Lord is our shepherd , '' he sobbed .
157	`` We shall not want . ''
158	The only stained glass window in the church that remained in its frame showed Christ leading a group of little children .
159	The face of Christ was blown out .
160	After the police dispersed the hysterical crowds , workmen with pickaxes went into the wrecked basement of the church .
161	Parts of brightly painted children 's furniture were strewn about in one Sunday School room , and blood stained the floors .
162	Chunks of concrete the size of footballs littered the basement .
163	The bomb apparently went off in an unoccupied basement room and blew down the wall , sending stone and debris flying like shrapnel into a room where children were assembling for closing prayers following Sunday School .
164	Bibles and song books lay shredded and scattered through the church .
165	In the main sanctuary upstairs , which holds about 500 persons , the pulpit and Bible were covered with pieces of stained glass .
166	One of the dead girls was decapitated .
167	The coroner 's office identified the dead as Denise McNair , 11 ; Carol Robertson , 14 ; Cynthia Wesley , 14 , and Addie Mae Collins , 10 .
168	As the crowd came outside watched the victims being carried out , one youth broke away and tried to touch one of the blanket-covered forms .
169	`` This is my sister , '' he cried .
170	`` My God , she 's dead . ''
171	Police took the hysterical boy away .
172	Mamie Grier , superintendent of the Sunday School , said when the bomb went off `` people began screaming , almost stampeding '' to get outside .
173	The wounded walked around in a daze , she said .
174	One of the injured taken to a hospital was a white man .
175	Many others cut by flying glass and other debris were not treated at hospitals .
176	Fourth in Four Weeks It was the fourth bombing in four weeks in Birmingham , and the third since the current school desegregation crisis came to a boil Sept. 4 .
177	Desegregation of schools in Birmingham , Mobile , and Tuskegee was finally brought about last Wednesday when President Kennedy federalized the National Guard .
178	Some of the Guardsmen in Birmingham are still under Federal orders .
179	Wallace said the ones he alerted today were units of the Guard `` not now federalized . ''
180	The City of Birmingham has offered a $ 52,000 reward for the arrest of the bombers , and Wallace today offered another $ 5,000 .
181	Dr. King Berates Wallace But Dr. King wired Wallace that `` the blood of four little children ... is on your hands .
182	Your irresponsible and misguided actions have created in Birmingham and Alabama the atmosphere that has induced continued violence and now murder . ''
183	Bomb Blast On Pakistan-India Border Kills Dozens LAHORE , Pakistan -LRB- AP -RRB- -- A suicide bomber detonated explosives near a Pakistani paramilitary checkpoint near the country 's eastern border with India on Sunday , killing at least 54 people in the deadliest attack to hit the country in several months , police and government officers said .
184	The explosion hit near the checkpoint at the Wagah border crossing as hundreds of people were returning from a military parade on the outskirts of Lahore , provincial police chief Mushtaq Sukhera said .
185	Both the Pakistani and the Indian military conduct daily parades and flag-flying ceremonies on their respective sides of the border .
186	The events draw crowds of hundreds , a number that would rise into the thousands on a weekend like Sunday .
187	The death toll was likely to rise because over 100 people were wounded , with several in critical condition , Sukhera said .
188	Police are investigating the bombing , and had intelligence reports in advance that there could be such a blast in the city , he added .
189	Another Lahore officer , Haider Ashraf , said some paramilitary troops were among the dead and wounded .
190	The paramilitary forces ' provincial Director General Tahir Javed said three soldiers died .
191	Dr. Khurram Shahzad at private Ghurki Trust hospital said that there were 10 women and seven children among the dead , and eight members of a single family .
192	He said several of them had multiple critical wounds .
193	Live TV footage on private Pakistani news channels showed people drenched in blood and crying in pain as they were evacuated to hospitals .
194	At the hospitals , relatives of the dead cried and beat their chests and heads .
195	`` My brothers , my two brothers , '' private Geo News TV showed a man wailing .
196	`` They both are dead . ''
197	All the officers said they did not know what the target could have been .
198	Javed , the paramilitary official , said the bomber exploded hardly 500 meters away from the checkpoint manned by the paramilitary troops .
199	Security has been increased in all major Pakistani cities to thwart possible attacks on minority Shiite Muslims observing Ashura , a 10-day ritual to commemorate the death of Imam Hussain , the grandson of Prophet Muhammad .
200	But , Haider , the police officer , said there was no such Shiite processions happening in the area where the bombing took place .
201	Jamatul Ahrar , a splinter group of the Pakistani Taliban , claimed responsibility for the attack .
202	Pakistani Taliban are made up of several local militant groups .
203	Ahrar was set up some months ago by half a dozen militant commanders who previously worked for the outfit but had evolved differences with its chief .
204	Its spokesman , Ahsanullah Ahsan , said the suicide attack was part of the militants ' war against the government and their attempts to enforce their version of Islamic law in the country .
205	`` We will continue such attacks , '' he told an Associated Press reporter by phone from an undisclosed location .
206	The militants have been waging a war against the state for over a decade , aiming to topple the government , killing thousands of Pakistanis .
207	At present , the Pakistani army is fighting the militants in their last safe haven , in the tribal area of North Waziristan where they say they have killed over 1,200 insurgents .
208	The militants have been on the run , some of them relocating them to other tribal areas and others managing to escape to neighboring Afghanistan .
209	The suicide bombing was the deadliest attack in Pakistan since the military launched the offensive in mid-June .
210	Suicide bombings paralyze Peshawar .
211	The Pakistani city has been hardest hit by retaliatory attacks from militants as a government crackdown against the Taliban continues .
212	Markets and parks are silent , and workers refuse night shifts .
213	PESHAWAR , PAKISTAN -- The markets of this chaotic city are usually cacophonous places , alive with the din of motorcycle rickshaws and legions of Pakistanis sizing up the pyramids of mangoes in one stall , office furniture in the next .
214	But on a recent dusky evening at Sadar market , shopkeepers sipped tea and looked out into an empty street .
215	No one , they fretted , wants to risk being there the next time a suicide bomber strikes .
216	`` Almost every shop here is empty , '' said Nisar Ahmed , 35 , manager of a small clothing store in the bazaar .
217	`` No customers come .
218	There are days when we just close early and go to sleep .
219	We ca n't sustain this . ''
220	Pakistan 's bid to subdue the Taliban has unleashed a wave of retaliatory suicide bombings in several major cities , from Islamabad , the capital , to the country 's cultural center , Lahore .
221	No city , however , has been hit as hard as Peshawar , a metropolis of nearly 3 million just outside the Taliban-infested northwestern tribal areas .
222	In recent weeks , suicide bombings have targeted crowded bazaars , police checkpoints , a movie theater and a heavily guarded luxury hotel frequented by Western diplomats and other foreigners .
223	Zahid Ullah Shinwari , the owner of a plastic sheeting factory and a PVC pipe plant not far from Peshawar , said he had been trying in vain for weeks to sell his businesses and move his family to safer ground .
224	`` Who will invest in an area where everyone is fleeing ? ''
225	said Shinwari , seated in a posh Peshawar office decorated with white laminate furniture and a large painting of a moose behind his desk .
226	`` But when you fear for your life , you ca n't think about business .
227	There 's only one thing on my mind right now , and that 's how to save myself , how to sell my assets and find a safer place to live . ''
228	An early-evening drive shows just how rattled this city is .
229	Restaurants once teeming with Peshawar 's middle class are largely empty .
230	There 's not a soul in sight at Funland , a large family park with a Ferris wheel , bumper cars and other amusement rides that 's a favorite with families .
231	`` Cultural life has come to a standstill , '' said Behroz Khan , Peshawar bureau chief for the Geo TV network .
232	`` People do n't go to restaurants anymore .
233	They do n't go to neighborhood festivals .
234	People just stay indoors now . ''
235	The bombing last month of the Pearl Continental Hotel , which killed 11 people , appeared to be a last straw for many here .
236	The hotel was seen as an oasis of security .
237	Diplomats and dignitaries stayed there , and businesspeople often dined in its restaurant or used its health club .
238	The bombing , businesspeople said , appeared to confirm their worst suspicion -- that no place in Peshawar is safe .
239	`` That was a nail in the coffin , '' said Mohammed Ishaq , vice president of Peshawar 's chamber of commerce and owner of an adhesive tape plant in the city .
240	`` That made people really scared .
241	We used to go there and feel so secure . ''
242	Since the government 's offensive in the Swat Valley began in April , 25 companies have moved out of Peshawar , Ishaq said .
243	Some went to Lahore , others to Dubai , United Arab Emirates .
244	Those that chose to stay have run into another problem : Workers are n't showing up for night shifts out of fear something could happen to them on their way to work .
245	`` Factories in Peshawar do n't have evening shifts anymore , '' Ishaq said .
246	At Sadar market , business owners say they ca n't hold on much longer .
247	Ahmed 's clothing store , Melody Garments , used to take in an average of $ 560 in sales daily .
248	Now , he said , his store pulls in about $ 10 a day .
249	Next door , the sales at Tariq Javed 's See and Select carpet shop have dropped by 75 % .
250	`` From morning to evening , there are no customers , '' Javed said angrily , as one of his workers sleepily leaned against a stack of rugs .
251	`` All the shop owners here sit idle all day .
252	If this continues , we 'll lose our business in a month . ''
253	Blast Hits Trade Center , Bomb Suspected ; 5 Killed , Thousands Flee Smoke in Towers Many Are Trapped for Hours in Darkness and Confusion An explosion apparently caused by a car bomb in an underground garage shook the World Trade Center in lower Manhattan with the force of a small earthquake shortly after noon yesterday , collapsing walls and floors , igniting fires and plunging the city 's largest building complex into a maelstrom of smoke , darkness and fearful chaos .
254	The police said the blast killed at least five people and left more than 650 others injured , mostly with smoke inhalation or minor burns , but dozens with cuts , bruises , broken bones or serious burns .
255	The police said 476 were treated at hospitals and the rest by rescue and medical crews at the scene .
256	The explosion also trapped hundreds of people in debris or in smoke-filled stairwells and elevators of the towers overhead and forced the evacuation of more than 50,000 workers from a trade center bereft of power for lights and elevators for seven hours .
257	No Bomb Fragments Found The blast , which was felt throughout the Wall Street area and a mile away on Ellis and Liberty Islands in New York Harbor , also knocked out the police command and operations centers for the towers , which officials said rendered the office complex 's evacuation plans useless .
258	James Fox , an assistant director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in charge of the agency 's New York office , said that no bomb fragments were found but that a joint terrorist task force of Federal agents and city detectives had examined the wreckage and believed that a car bomb had caused the explosion .
259	There was no warning of an impending explosion , Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said .
260	Jack Killorin , a spokesman in Washington for the Treasury Department 's Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms , said that after the blast , authorities received at least nine telephone calls claiming responsibility .
261	Mr. Killorin said the first call was made 15 minutes after the blast to a non-emergency number of a New York Police Department precinct by an individual who mentioned the conflict in Bosnia .
262	He said other claims were made between an hour and several hours after the event by callers who cited that and a variety of other reasons for the attack .
263	He declined to elaborate .
264	Some law-enforcement officials said an explosion of such size , without a claim of responsibility in advance , might suggest that it went off accidentally .
265	Mr. Kelly was more oblique about the cause of the blast , saying only that a car bomb or other type of explosive device was not being ruled out .
266	Four hours after the explosion , a bomb threat forced the evacuation of the Empire State Building in midtown Manhattan , and there were numerous other bomb threats in the city , the police said .
267	But it was unclear if any were related to the World Trade Center explosion or only the macabre work of pranksters .
268	As the day ended , a series of investigations began -- into the cause of the explosion and its possible perpetrators , and into what went wrong in what many called a botched evacuation , with no alarms and no instructions for thousands caught in dark , smoky stairwells , in stark contrast to carefully laid plans .
269	Mayor David N. Dinkins , visiting in Osaka , Japan , was notified by City Hall and , in a telephone news conference , called the Fire Department response the largest for any non-natural disaster in the city 's history .
270	He said he had spoken with President Clinton and had thanked him for the cooperation of Federal investigators .
271	The effects of the blast radiated outward , disrupting most non-cable television transmissions throughout the metropolitan area , halting traffic in most of lower Manhattan and PATH train service under the Hudson River from the trade center to New Jersey , and transforming an ordinary Friday in the financial district into an afternoon of turmoil , death and destruction .
272	On a day of high drama , tragedy and heroism , there were a thousand stories : rescuers digging frantically for victims in the collapsed PATH station under the towers , soot-streaked evacuees groping for hours in the city 's tallest buildings , a woman in a wheelchair carried down 66 stories by two friends , a pregnant woman airlifted by helicopter from a tower roof , and the tales of many others stumbling out , gasping for air , terrified but glad to be alive .
273	And among the most poignant was that of a class of kindergartners from Public School 95 in Gravesend , Brooklyn .
274	Caught on the 107th floor observatory , they took all day to walk down , singing to keep up their spirits .
275	Many of those who walked down scores of flights from the upper reaches of the trade center towers said there had been no alarm bells and no instructions from building personnel or emergency workers .
276	While little panic was reported , witnesses said confusion reigned in the darkness of crowded stairwells where smoke billowed and unknown dangers lurked below .
277	Many put moist towels or handkerchiefs to their faces against the smoke .
278	Others , frightened , remained in their offices , hoping for rescue .
279	As smoke seeped in under the doors , some broke windows to get air .
280	Dozens of people , meantime , were trapped for hours in elevators frozen between floors , among them another class of kindergartners from P.S. 95 .
281	The worst fires were extinguished by midafternoon .
282	By then extensive efforts to assist those caught on the upper floors were already well underway .
283	But the trade center , with 250 elevators and miles of corridors and stairways , posed a major challenge and long after dark last night rescue workers continued to search the labyrinth for stragglers and others still trying to get out .
284	On a day of confusion , the police and the Emergency Medical Service repeatedly revised the number of people killed by the blast .
285	By early evening the police said five had been killed while the medical service said seven were dead .
286	Several hours later the police increased the number to seven , but shortly after 11 P.M. , the police scaled back the figure to five , saying they could not confirm the medical service 's report of seven fatalities .
287	There was no clear explanation for the discrepancies .
288	The blast , which erupted at 12:18 P.M. on the second level of a four-story underground parking garage beneath the trade center 's 110-story twin towers and the complex 's Vista Hotel , sent cars hurtling like toys , blew out a 100-foot wall and sent the floor collapsing down several stories , creating a crater 60 feet wide that reached deep into the bowels of the parking complex .
289	` Everything Was on Fire ' It also collapsed the ceiling of a mezzanine in the adjacent Port Authority Trans-Hudson train station , leaving dozens trapped under rubble on a concourse one floor above the platforms where hundreds awaited trains .
290	Witnesses and rescue workers told of a blast of incredible force -- of bodies hurtling through the air , of cars wrapped around pillars , of people burning and scores trapped .
291	` We crawled under pipes when we arrived and everything was on fire , ' said Edward Bergen , a 38-year-old firefighter who was one of the first to reach the scene of the blast .
292	` Suddenly , a guy came walking out of the flames , like one of those zombies in the movie , ` The Night of the Living Dead . '
293	His flesh was hanging off .
294	He was a middle-aged man . '
295	Fire Capt. Timothy Dowling , of Engine Company 6 , recalled a ghastly scene of fires lapping in the darkness , illuminating a smoking hell of others still trying to get out .
296	On a day of confusion , the police and the Emergency Medical Service repeatedly revised the number of people killed by the blast .
297	By early evening the police said five had been killed while the medical service said seven were dead .
298	Several hours later the police increased the number to seven , but shortly after 11 P.M. , the police scaled back the figure to five , saying they could not confirm the medical service 's report of seven fatalities .
299	There was no clear explanation for the discrepancies .
300	The blast , which erupted at 12:18 P.M. on the second level of a four-story underground parking garage beneath the trade center 's 110-story twin towers and the complex 's Vista Hotel , sent cars hurtling like toys , blew out a 100-foot wall and sent the floor collapsing down several stories , creating a crater 60 feet wide that reached deep into the bowels of the parking complex .
301	` Everything Was on Fire ' It also collapsed the ceiling of a mezzanine in the adjacent Port Authority Trans-Hudson train station , leaving dozens trapped under rubble on a concourse one floor above the platforms where hundreds awaited trains .
302	Witnesses and rescue workers told of a blast of incredible force -- of bodies hurtling through the air , of cars wrapped around pillars , of people burning and scores trapped .
303	` We crawled under pipes when we arrived and everything was on fire , ' said Edward Bergen , a 38-year-old firefighter who was one of the first to reach the scene of the blast .
304	` Suddenly , a guy came walking out of the flames , like one of those zombies in the movie , ` The Night of the Living Dead . '
305	His flesh was hanging off .
306	He was a middle-aged man . '
307	Fire Capt. Timothy Dowling , of Engine Company 6 , recalled a ghastly scene of fires lapping in the darkness , illuminating a smoking hell of twisted cars and broken concrete .
308	` It looked like a bomb had exploded because of the amount of fire and damage to the floors .
309	All we could do was put water on the flames . '
310	` The Dust Was Blinding ' Ken Olson , 34 , a pipefitter , was in the basement when the explosion hit .
311	` All of a sudden all hell broke loose , ' he said .
312	` All the pipes ruptured , the dust was blinding .
313	Luckily we all stayed together and got out . '
314	Nearby , Vito de Leo , 32 , an air-conditioning mechanic , was eating lunch at his desk with other basement trade center workers .
315	Suddenly , the desk rose up , came down and landed on top of him .
316	But its well protected him from a rain of falling debris .
317	` The furniture collapsed , the walls collapsed , the ceiling collapsed , ' he said .
318	` There was total blackness .
319	I thought I was dead . '
320	Later , wading through knee-deep water amid gas pipelines danging overhead in the garage , a cadre of firefighters , police officers and other rescue workers found two bodies in a lunchroom used by mechanics , another body in the mangled wreckage of a car , and more victims under the debris in the garage .
321	The five victims -- three men , one woman and one unidentified -- were all believed to heve been killed by the blast .
322	They were not immediately identified but the Port Authority said that they were all believed to be authority workers or people working under contract to the agency .
323	The authorities said that more bodies might be found in the rubble as the search went on .
324	The police said 420 workers and visitors at the trade center were treated at hospitals , along with 44 firefighters , 11 police officers and one Emergency Medical Service worker .
325	Meantime , as several fires erupted around the scene of the explosion , heavy smoke billowed up through the corridors , elevator shafts and stairwells of the trade center .
326	Because of the time , shortly after noon , many workers were at lunch at nearby restaurants or at fast-food outlets on the ground floor , from where they easily escaped .
327	But the police estimated that as many as 50,000 people -- workers , tourists and other visitors were still in the building , many of them trapped on the highest floors -- and it was not merely the blast that shook the entire complex , not merely the growing volumes of smoke pouring upward , that frightened them .
328	Darkness and the unknown perils that awaited them below added to the fears .
329	Much of the power to the trade center had been knocked out by the blast -- Consolidated Edison said four of its eight feeder cables to the center were shut down .
330	And within an hour , at the request of the Fire Department , which was trying to protect rescue workers and firefighters in dangerous areas , all power to the trade center was shut off by Con Edison , as well as natural gas and steam to the complex , which houses thousands of offices in six buildings bounded by Church , West , Liberty and Vesey Streets .
331	Pat Richardi , a Con Edison spokeswoman , said that no hazardous materials , such as polychlorinated biphenals , were in any of the transformers or cables of the trade center , which was completed 22 years ago.Many of the people climbing down stairs told of having to stop frequently because of panic below ; some let pregnant women and old people go through ; some nearly passed out with exhaustion ; others told of tense minutes in which they sat down on the steps , trying to regain breath in stifling , smoky air .
332	` It was like sardines , cattle , a herd , ' said Larry Bianculli , 31 , of Hicksville , L.I. , who walked down 104 floors with his wool scarf over his sooty face .
333	Sherri Chambers , 21 , a bank employee , said it took her two and a half hours to descend from the 60th floor .
334	` You could n't even see it was so smoky , ' she said . '
335	I kept wanting to sit down , but I did n't because if I sat down I thought I would n't get up .
336	Firefighter Bill Chupa , 40 , of Ladder 20 , said many people were trapped in elevators and screaming for help .
337	He said firefighters broke open elevator doors and found people in groups of 8 or 10 , lying in darkness on the floor to escape the smoke .
338	After freeing those in elevators , the rescuers turned to the stairwells and began escorting people down .
339	By midafternoon , there was a steady stream of survivors coming from the towers , many with faces blackened by smoke and gasping for air .
340	Some of the most spectacular evacuations came when police helicopters landed on the roofs of the trade center towers and carried away 23 people , including a pregnant woman .
341	Don Burke , who works for the Port Authority on the 66th floor , ran back to his office when he discovered there was a fire and , with a colleague , carried Cathy Collins , a lawyer who uses a wheelchair , to safety in relays .
342	In a shopping area on the ground floor of the trade center 's World Financial Center at 250 Vesey Street , medical and rescue workers set up a triage area of folding chairs , oxygen tanks , blood pressure devices , blankets and other medical aids .
343	While there was little panic , aides to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo told of a pregnant woman screaming as they descended from the Governor 's 57th floor offices in a chaos of darkness and disorder .
344	The Governor , who was in Albany , said President Clinton had called him to express concern and offer aid from the Federal Emergency Management Agency .
345	Mr. Cuomo also raised some questions : ` What emergency devices were available ?
346	Did they work ?
347	Why were there no lights ?
348	Why were there no public announcements .
349	The Port Authority will be called upon to answer , and I 'm sure they will . '
350	Power was partly restored to the trade center towers at 7:20 P.M. , and by 9:30 rescue workers said everyone had been evacuated .
351	The ceiling collapse in the PATH station forced a halt to all train service to New Jersey from the trade center , but PATH service from midtown , operating on another line , continued to operate through the day .
352	Subway trains were rerouted and continued to run , but streets throughout the area were closed to clear the way for emergency vehicles .
353	These New York Times reporters and photographers contributed to the coverage of the explosion at the World Trade Center : Ralph Blumenthal , Fred R. Conrad , Celia W. Dugger , Seth Faison , Ian Fisher , Lindsey Gruson , Dennis Hevesi , Lynette Holloway , Marvine Howe , Edward Keating , Clifford J. Levy , James C. McKinley Jr. , Steven Lee Myers , Alison Mitchell , Maria Newman , Larry Olmstead , Garry Pierre-Pierre , Todd S. Purdum , Dith Pran , Selwyn Raab , Lynda Richardson , Calvin Sims , Ronald Sullivan , Ruby Washington , Craig Wolff .
354	In Nigeria , New Boko Haram Suicide Bomber Tactic : ` It 's a Little Girl ' DAKAR , Senegal -- A girl perhaps no more than 10 years old detonated powerful explosives concealed under her veil at a crowded northern Nigeria market on Saturday , killing as many as 20 people and wounding many more .
355	The blast inflicted devastating damage on shoppers at the Monday Market in Maiduguri , the shopping hub in a city that is at the heart of the Boko Haram insurgency .
356	The explosion , witnessed by dozens of people , represented a new tactic in the Islamists ' campaign with their decision to use perhaps their youngest-ever suicide bomber .
357	The terrorist group has increasingly employed women as suicide bombers , even as it has stepped up its abductions of girls across northeast Nigeria , including the kidnapping of more than 200 in the town of Chibok last April .
358	Late last year , two women hit the Monday Market in suicide attacks , killing dozens , and in one week last summer four women carried out bombings in northern Nigeria 's biggest city , Kano .
359	But the use of a child to kill -- witnesses , police officials , a top hospital official in Maiduguri and local vigilantes all agreed that the bomber was very young -- may be unprecedented in the insurgency .
360	`` It 's a little girl , '' said the hospital official , who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of his position .
361	`` The body is beyond recognition , but from the face you can see it 's a young person .
362	A young pretty girl . ''
363	A vigilante group has taken responsibility for much of what little security exists in Maiduguri , and on Saturday morning , before the blast , several members of the group had screened the girl with metal detectors as she entered the market , said a spokesman , Abubakar Faruq .
364	The girl resisted , the vigilantes noticed a bulge around her waist and the bomb went off , Mr. Faruq said .
365	A police spokesman said 20 people were killed and 18 others critically wounded .
366	Several witnesses said it appeared that the girl might not have been aware of her deadly burden .
367	Bakura Bashir , a shopper who witnessed the explosion , said : `` This girl may not necessarily know she was conveying a timed bomb .
368	The girl was torn into two halves , and half of her body was thrown across buildings by the devastating blast . ''
369	A top federal police official in the capital , Abuja , who once worked in Maiduguri , said Saturday that the terrorist group appeared to have embarked on a new path .
370	`` It 's something quite new , and it 's disturbing , using these young , young girls wearing hijabs , '' the official said , referring to the Muslim veil .
371	`` Now , one has to be suspicious of any lady wearing a hijab -- whether it 's a young lady , or an old lady , '' said the police official , who asked not to be quoted by name because of concerns about his position .
372	Boko Haram has carried out a spate of attacks recently in the northeast , including a devastating one in Baga , a fishing village north of Maiduguri , that killed dozens last week ; an assault on the nearby city of Damaturu on Friday evening that set off a gun battle lasting more than four hours , but that was ultimately repelled by security forces ; and a bombing in Potiskum on Saturday that killed two police officers .
373	Bomb Attacks at Security Sites in Sinai Kill at Least 26 CAIRO -- A series of simultaneous bombings targeting security facilities in the Sinai killed at least 26 people Thursday night , prompting fears that the Egyptian government 's campaign of home demolitions , curfews and sweeping arrests has failed to choke off a budding insurgency there .
374	The wave of bombings was the first major outburst of violence since the main Islamist militant group operating in the Sinai pledged allegiance to the Islamic State in November .
375	Through a Twitter account linked to the group , now known as the Sinai Province of the Islamic State , it claimed responsibility for the attacks on more than a half-dozen locations .
376	The assault , involving nearly simultaneous bombings in several places around the cities of Arish and Rafah , was the most complicated and widely coordinated terrorist attack in Egypt in years .
377	It was also the deadliest attack in the Sinai since a multistage assault on a military checkpoint killed at least 31 people on the night of Oct. 24 .
378	Indeed , the ambition of the attack suggested either that the Sinai militants may be following the advice , or the example , of the Islamic State extremist group , or perhaps that the Sinai outfit sought a spectacular attack to advertise its new affiliation .
379	Residents of the Sinai and the Egyptian state news media said that attackers had deployed multiple car bombs and mortars against several government targets : the North Sinai security headquarters in Arish , the provincial capital ; a nearby army base ; a hotel used by the police ; a security camp near the border town of Rafah ; and several checkpoints .
380	Al Ahram , Egypt 's flagship state newspaper , reported that its office in Arish had also been struck , although apparently only because it was near the security headquarters and not because it was a target .
381	Health officials said the bombings had injured more than 100 people , according to the state news media .
382	`` This means that the military does not control Sinai , as it claims , '' said Khalil al-Anani , a professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies who studies extremism .
383	`` The insurgency is getting stronger and stronger , and the government 's strategy is a failure . ''
384	Borhan el-Beek , a resident of Arish , said his home was about 400 yards from a complex of security buildings that were attacked in four places about 7:30 p.m. , not long after the start of the nightly curfew .
385	`` Now there are soldiers and patrols filling the streets , '' he said , `` and I can see from my balcony there are tanks making the rounds . ''
386	The army `` has been fighting terrorism for a year and a half , and how are the percentages ?
387	Is it increasing or decreasing ? ''
388	he asked .
389	`` In the North Sinai , we just do n't know . ''
390	Islamist militants have long found a haven in the rugged and loosely governed Sinai Peninsula , capitalizing on its marginalization and the widespread resentment of the police .
391	In the 18 months since the military ousted President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood , however , the Sinai has become the center of a campaign of retaliatory attacks on Egyptian security forces that has become the most significant challenge to rule of Mr. Morsi 's successor , President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi .
392	Continue reading the main story In an effort to combat the attacks , Mr. Sisi , a former defense minister , has ordered a virtual military occupation of the region .
393	Helicopter gunships have destroyed homes and buildings believed to conceal militants .
394	Residents describe large networks of police informants and widespread arrests .
395	After the embarrassment of the Oct. 24 attack , security forces announced the forced evacuation and demolition of more than 800 homes within about a kilometer of the border with the Gaza Strip and Israel .
396	That ultimately led to the razing of much of the border town of Rafah .
397	The authorities said that was necessary to seal off tunnels under the border with Gaza , which they said had been used by militants to attack and escape .
398	But the scale of Thursday 's assault indicates that the militants have retained sufficient ability to operate despite the crackdown .
399	`` They have displaced a lot of people , and that undoubtedly creates a lot of resentment and increases the atmosphere of permissiveness for this kind of violence , '' said Tamara Cofman Wittes , director of the Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution and a former deputy assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs .
400	`` It is clear that this extremely coercive approach is not working , '' she added .
401	Spokesmen for the military and the police did not respond to requests for comment .
402	Mr. Beek , the resident of Arish , said he wished the Sinai could return to the time before the surge in violence .
403	He lamented the forced evacuations , strict curfews and constrictions on the ability to enter or leave the Sinai .
404	`` More increases in the pressure on the citizens of Sinai , making them feel really like seventh - and eighth-rate citizens , '' he said .
405	India , Thailand Bombings Possibly Linked , Thai Investigators Say BANGKOK , Feb 15 -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Thai investigators believe they have found a link between this week 's bomb blasts in Bangkok and New Delhi , a senior security official said on Wednesday , two of three botched attacks Israel has blamed on Iran .
406	Iran , whose leaders had threatened to retaliate for Israel 's alleged car-bomb assassination of several of its nuclear scientists , denied involvement in the attacks on Monday and Tuesday , including a bomb that failed to explode in the Georgian capital , Tbilisi .
407	Asked whether the explosives used in India and Thailand were the same , a senior Thai security official said they both had the same `` magnetic sheets '' .
408	`` The individual was in possession of the same magnets and we are currently examining the source of the magnet , '' National Security Council Secretary Wichian Podphosri said .
409	A man carrying an Iranian passport lost a leg when a bomb he was carrying in Bangkok went off on Tuesday after an earlier explosion , apparently accidental , at a house he was renting .
410	His other leg had to be amputated .
411	The suspect , identified as Saeid Moradi , was in stable condition in a Bangkok hospital , although he remained unconscious after 10 hours of surgery , said hospital surgeon Suparung Preechayuth .
412	Police said he had been charged with illegal possesion of explosives , causing explosions , attempted murder and assaulting a police officer .
413	The American , British and Australian embassies in Bangkok told their citizens to be vigilant in light of the explosions but did not advise against travel to the capital .
414	A day earlier in the Indian capital , a bomb wrecked a car taking an Israeli embassy official to pick up her children from school , police said .
415	The woman was in stable condition on Wednesday after surgery to her spine and liver .
416	Her driver and two passers-by suffered lesser injuries in the attack which police believe was also a botched job .
417	The motorbike rider who stuck the bomb on to the car put it on the opposite side to the petrol tank -- if it had been on the tank side it would have been a bigger blast and likely caused fatalities .
418	Media said five people had been detained for questioning .
419	Iran 's ambassador to India dismissed allegations of involvement in the bombing , saying Israel often made such accusations .
420	`` We are not accepting , we are denying this and I do n't know how they can assume within a short time of one hour that to say who has done this .
421	It has happened in India .
422	If India 's security says something like that then we have to verify , '' Seyed Mehdi Nabizadeh told reporters .
423	`` This is the real fact and it is not even under consideration .
424	Really , it is that they are always telling such a thing . ''
425	Delhi police spokesman Rajan Bhagat confirmed that the blast there was caused by a `` sticky bomb '' .
426	He said witnesses saw a lone motorbike rider attach the device to the right rear side of the car in which an Israeli diplomat 's wife , who also works at the embassy , was travelling .
427	`` This is the first time that this modus operandi has been seen in India , '' Bhagat told Reuters .
428	`` We do n't yet have the evidence to point the finger at anybody .
429	We are exploring all possibilities . ''
430	On the same day , an attempt to bomb an Israeli embassy car in Tbilisi failed and the device was defused , Israeli and Georgian officials said .
431	DIPLOMATIC BALANCE India has good relations with both Iran and Israel , so the attack makes its diplomatic balancing act between the two countries all the more difficult and has thrust the mounting tension between the Middle East rivals on to its doorstep .
432	Israel is the second-largest supplier of arms to India .
433	But India is Iran 's biggest oil buyer , relying on it for about 12 percent of its needs , and it is Iran 's top supplier of rice .
434	India 's Economic Times questioned why Iran would take the risk of launching an attack in India .
435	`` The idea that Iran would want to make India a theatre in its rivalry with Israel is far-fetched and does not sit well with the track record of Tehran 's relationship with India , '' it said .
436	Indian media , however , said investigators were scanning records of all Iranians as well as Lebanese students who arrived in recent months as part of their investigation .
437	In the Bangkok attack , one bomb went off in the bombers ' home .
438	Another was thrown at a taxi that would n't take one of the men who left the house .
439	The third blew off the man 's leg when he tried to throw it at police and it either went off before he could throw it or it hit something and ricocheted back at him .
440	Two other men shared the rented house with him .
441	One was arrested at Bangkok 's international airport on Tuesday but he has not yet been charged .
442	A third man slipped past security at the airport and had fled to Malaysia .
443	Thai police declined to make any link between Tuesday 's explosions and the arrest last month of a Lebanese man in Bangkok who , according to the Thai authorities , had links to Hezbollah .
444	`` From investigation , it appears that the incident is more of an individual-focused plot rather than targeting landmark areas , '' Thai official Wichian said .
445	`` At the moment , we have n't found any connection to the Lebanese suspect . ''
446	-LRB- Additional reporting by Panarat Thepgumpanat , Sinsiri Tiwutanond and Alan Raybould in Bangkok , John Chalmers in New Delhi and Dan Williams in JERUSALEM ; Writing by Nick Macfie and Sanjeev Miglani ; Editing by Robert Birsel -RRB- Delhi Bombing : Israeli Diplomat 's Car In India Hit By Blast , According To Spokesman Assailants targeted Israeli diplomats in India and Georgia in near-simultaneous strikes on Monday , wounding two people in a car bombing in New Delhi , officials said .
447	Israel said an attempted car bombing in Georgia was thwarted .
448	Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu swiftly accused archenemy Iran , and its Lebanese proxy , Hezbollah .
449	`` Today we witnessed two attempts of terrorism against innocent civilians , '' Prime Minister told a gathering of lawmakers from his Likud Party .
450	`` Iran is behind these attacks and it is the largest terror exporter in the world . ''
451	he said .
452	There was no claim of responsibility for the attacks .
453	But Netanyahu also said Israel had thwarted similar attacks in recent months in Azerbaijan and Thailand .
454	`` In all those cases , the elements behind these attacks were Iran and its protege Hezbollah , '' he said , vowing to `` act with a strong hand against international terror . ''
455	Both Hezbollah and Iran have deep grievances against the Jewish state .
456	Hezbollah battled Israel in a monthlong war in the summer of 2006 , and on Sunday , it the Lebanese guerrilla group marked the anniversary of the 2008 assassination of one of its commanders , Imad Mughniyeh , in a bombing widely believed to have been carried out by Israel .
457	Iran suspects Israeli involvement in a series of killings of officials and scientists involved in its controversial nuclear program .
458	Israel routinely advises its citizens to use caution when traveling abroad .
459	It has had a standing alert for tourists visiting India since a 2008 attack on a Jewish center in Mumbai .
460	The explosion in India tore through a diplomat 's car , Israeli officials said .
461	Indian officials said the driver and a diplomat 's wife were injured .
462	The explosion took place in the late afternoon close to the embassy , said embassy spokesman David Goldfarb .
463	Television footage showed a charred minivan with blue diplomatic plates , its rear door apparently blown out .
464	Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor would not discuss who was injured nor the extent of the injuries because it was a security matter .
465	`` We are looking into the incident and cooperation with local security forces is excellent , '' Palmor said from Israel .
466	Authorities in the former Soviet republic of Georgia said an explosive device was planted on the car of a driver for the Israeli Embassy .
467	Shota Utiashvili , spokesman for the Georgian Interior Ministry , said the driver noticed a package attached to his car 's undercarriage on Monday and called police .
468	Police found a grenade in the package and it was defused , Utiashvili said .
469	He did not specify where the car was parked or say when the device was discovered .
470	There was no immediate comment from Iran or Hezbollah .
471	But speculation will undoubtedly be raised over the possibility of Iranian-linked payback for assassinations on nuclear scientists and other covert plots that Tehran has blamed on Israel 's spy agency Mossad and Western allies .
472	`` There have been all kinds of mysterious things happening in Iran , and it could be an Iranian counterattack , '' said Mike Herzog , a retired Israeli general and former top aide to Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak .
473	`` It 's no secret that Iran uses Hezbollah globally , and Hezbollah has the capacity to carry out attacks around the globe . ''
474	Hezbollah dominates the government of Lebanon , which borders Israel to the north .
475	Israel , like the West , accuses Iran of pursuing nuclear weapons , and has urged the international community to consider all means , including military action , to stop Tehran .
476	Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes only .
477	Last month , a director of Iran 's main uranium enrichment site was killed in a blast from a magnetic bomb placed on his car .
478	The official , Mostafa Ahmadi Roshan , was at least the fifth member of Iran 's scientific community killed in apparent targeted attacks in the past two years .
479	Iran accused Israel of being behind the attacks .
480	Later , Iran 's official news agency IRNA said it had `` evidence '' of alleged U.S. and British involvement in the Roshan killing .
481	In a signal that Iran could strike back for Roshan 's killing , Gen. Masoud Jazayeri , the spokesman for Iran 's Joint Armed Forces Staff , was quoted by the semiofficial ISNA news agency last month as saying that Tehran was `` reviewing the punishment '' of `` behind-the-scene elements '' involved in the assassination .
482	`` Iran 's response will be a tormenting one for supporters of state terrorism , '' he said , without elaborating .
483	`` The enemies of the Iranian nation , especially the United States , Britain and the Zionist regime , or Israel , have to be held responsible for their activities . ''
484	Iran also has blamed the U.S. and allies for a sophisticated computer virus , known as Stuxnet , that was programmed to disrupt the centrifuges used in uranium enrichment .
485	Iran said the virus was detected in its systems , but claimed no serious setbacks occurred .
486	Israeli diplomats have been frequent targets of attackers around the world .
487	In January , a foreign suspect with alleged links to Hezbollah militants led Thai police to a warehouse filled with materials commonly used to make bombs .
488	Police seized more than 8,800 pounds -LRB- 4,000 kilograms -RRB- of urea fertilizer and several gallons of liquid ammonium nitrate at the warehouse in Samut Sakhon , on the western outskirts of Bangkok .
489	The U.S. and Israel warned their citizens of a possible terror threat In January 2010 , assailants detonated a roadside bomb near a convoy of cars carrying Israeli diplomats in Jordan .
490	No one was hurt , and there was no claim of responsibility .
491	In 1992 , a bombing attack at the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires killed 29 people .
492	Two years later , a bombing at a Jewish community center in that city killed 85 people .
493	Argentines have long suspected high-level Iranian diplomats were involved in the 1994 bombing .
494	The Jewish group Chabad was one of the targets in a 2008 rampage by Islamic militants in the Indian city of Chabad .
495	The attacks killed more than 160 people .
496	Among them were six people at the Chabad house , including the rabbi who ran the site .
