dummy	dummy	0	0	The woman was in stable condition on Wednesday after surgery to her spine and liver .
dummy	dummy	0	0	A bomb severely damaged a Negro church today during Sunday school services , killing four Negro girls and setting off racial rioting and other violence in which two Negro boys were shot to death .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Six Dead After Church Bombing Blast Kills Four Children ; Riots Follow Two Youths Slain ; State Reinforces Birmingham Police Birmingham , Sept. 15 -- A bomb hurled from a passing car blasted a crowded Negro church today , killing four girls in their Sunday school classes and triggering outbreaks of violence that left two more persons dead in the streets .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The attacks killed more than 160 people .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The police dispersed them by firing shotguns over their heads .
dummy	dummy	0	0	` The Dust Was Blinding ' Ken Olson , 34 , a pipefitter , was in the basement when the explosion hit .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Last month , a director of Iran 's main uranium enrichment site was killed in a blast from a magnetic bomb placed on his car .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Johnny Robinson , a 16-year-old Negro , was shot in the back and killed by a policeman with a shotgun this afternoon .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The police said the blast killed at least five people and left more than 650 others injured , mostly with smoke inhalation or minor burns , but dozens with cuts , bruises , broken bones or serious burns .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Two years later , a bombing at a Jewish community center in that city killed 85 people .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Dozens of persons were injured when the bomb went off in the church , which held 400 Negroes at the time , including 80 children .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Two Negro youths were killed in outbreaks of shooting seven hours after the 16th Street Baptist Church was bombed , and a third was wounded .
dummy	dummy	0	0	City police shot a 16-year-old Negro to death when he refused to heed their commands to halt after they caught him stoning cars .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Some law-enforcement officials said the bombing might be linked to the second anniversary today of Federal agents ' ill-fated assault on the Branch Davidian compound near Waco , Tex. , an operation that ended in a fire that killed about 80 people , including many children .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Virgil Wade , a 13-year-old Negro , was shot and killed just outside Birmingham while riding a bicycle .
dummy	dummy	0	0	-LRB- The Associated Press reported that among the injured in subsequent shooting were a white man injured by a Negro .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The bomb apparently went off in an unoccupied basement room and blew down the wall , sending stone and debris flying like shrapnel into a room where children were assembling for closing prayers following Sunday School .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The third blew off the man 's leg when he tried to throw it at police and it either went off before he could throw it or it hit something and ricocheted back at him .
dummy	dummy	0	0	It was also the deadliest attack in the Sinai since a multistage assault on a military checkpoint killed at least 31 people on the night of Oct. 24 .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Fourteen Negroes were injured in the explosion .
dummy	dummy	0	0	A 13-year-old Negro boy was shot and killed as he rode his bicycle in a suburban area north of the city .
dummy	dummy	0	0	In Nigeria , New Boko Haram Suicide Bomber Tactic : ` It 's a Little Girl ' DAKAR , Senegal -- A girl perhaps no more than 10 years old detonated powerful explosives concealed under her veil at a crowded northern Nigeria market on Saturday , killing as many as 20 people and wounding many more .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The suspect , identified as Saeid Moradi , was in stable condition in a Bangkok hospital , although he remained unconscious after 10 hours of surgery , said hospital surgeon Suparung Preechayuth .
dummy	dummy	0	0	At Least 31 Are Dead , Scores Are Missing After Car Bomb Attack in Oklahoma City Wrecks 9-Story Federal Office Building Washington , April 19 -- The authorities opened an intensive hunt today for whoever bombed a Federal office building in Oklahoma City , and proceeded on the theory that the bombing was a terrorist attack against the Government , law-enforcement officials said .
dummy	dummy	0	0	In the case of the trade center , Ramzi Ahmed Yousef , charged with being the mastermind behind the bombing , entered the United States under an assumed name , recruited local supporters to carry out the detail work and then fled the country within hours of the blast , the authorities say .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The five victims -- three men , one woman and one unidentified -- were all believed to heve been killed by the blast .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The official , Mostafa Ahmadi Roshan , was at least the fifth member of Iran 's scientific community killed in apparent targeted attacks in the past two years .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Health officials said the bombings had injured more than 100 people , according to the state news media .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Bomb Attacks at Security Sites in Sinai Kill at Least 26 CAIRO -- A series of simultaneous bombings targeting security facilities in the Sinai killed at least 26 people Thursday night , prompting fears that the Egyptian government 's campaign of home demolitions , curfews and sweeping arrests has failed to choke off a budding insurgency there .
dummy	dummy	0	0	In 1992 , a bombing attack at the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires killed 29 people .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Late last year , two women hit the Monday Market in suicide attacks , killing dozens , and in one week last summer four women carried out bombings in northern Nigeria 's biggest city , Kano .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Police said he had been charged with illegal possesion of explosives , causing explosions , attempted murder and assaulting a police officer .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Four whites , including a honeymooning couple from Chicago , were injured by stones while driving through the neighborhood of the bombing .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The four girls killed in the blast had just heard Mrs. Ella C. Demand , their teacher , complete the Sunday school lesson for the day .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The Negro youth killed by police was Johnny Robinson , 16 .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Javed , the paramilitary official , said the bomber exploded hardly 500 meters away from the checkpoint manned by the paramilitary troops .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The Governor , who was in Albany , said President Clinton had called him to express concern and offer aid from the Federal Emergency Management Agency .
dummy	dummy	0	0	One was arrested at Bangkok 's international airport on Tuesday but he has not yet been charged .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Another Negro youth and a white youth were shot but not seriously wounded in separate incidents .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Another white man was wounded by a Negro who attempted to rob him , according to police . -RRB-
dummy	dummy	0	0	Bomb Blast On Pakistan-India Border Kills Dozens LAHORE , Pakistan -LRB- AP -RRB- -- A suicide bomber detonated explosives near a Pakistani paramilitary checkpoint near the country 's eastern border with India on Sunday , killing at least 54 people in the deadliest attack to hit the country in several months , police and government officers said .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Boko Haram has carried out a spate of attacks recently in the northeast , including a devastating one in Baga , a fishing village north of Maiduguri , that killed dozens last week ; an assault on the nearby city of Damaturu on Friday evening that set off a gun battle lasting more than four hours , but that was ultimately repelled by security forces ; and a bombing in Potiskum on Saturday that killed two police officers .
dummy	dummy	0	0	-LRB- Additional reporting by Panarat Thepgumpanat , Sinsiri Tiwutanond and Alan Raybould in Bangkok , John Chalmers in New Delhi and Dan Williams in JERUSALEM ; Writing by Nick Macfie and Sanjeev Miglani ; Editing by Robert Birsel -RRB- Delhi Bombing : Israeli Diplomat 's Car In India Hit By Blast , According To Spokesman Assailants targeted Israeli diplomats in India and Georgia in near-simultaneous strikes on Monday , wounding two people in a car bombing in New Delhi , officials said .
